---
title: "D&C 100"
book: "Doctrine and Covenants"
chapter: 100
volume: "doctrine-and-covenants"
slug: "sections/100"
verses_count: 17
---

<sup>1</sup> Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you, my friends Sidney and Joseph, your families are well; they are in mine hands, and I will do with them as seemeth me good; for in me there is all power.

<sup>2</sup> Therefore, follow me, and listen to the counsel which I shall give unto you.

<sup>3</sup> Behold, and lo, I have much people in this place, in the regions round about; and an effectual door shall be opened in the regions round about in this eastern land.

<sup>4</sup> Therefore, I, the Lord, have suffered you to come unto this place; for thus it was expedient in me for the salvation of souls.

<sup>5</sup> Therefore, verily I say unto you, lift up your voices unto this people; speak the thoughts that I shall put into your hearts, and you shall not be confounded before men;

<sup>6</sup> For it shall be given you in the very hour, yea, in the very moment, what ye shall say.

<sup>7</sup> But a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall declare whatsoever thing ye declare in my name, in solemnity of heart, in the spirit of meekness, in all things.

<sup>8</sup> And I give unto you this promise, that inasmuch as ye do this the Holy Ghost shall be shed forth in bearing record unto all things whatsoever ye shall say.

<sup>9</sup> And it is expedient in me that you, my servant Sidney, should be a spokesman unto this people; yea, verily, I will ordain you unto this calling, even to be a spokesman unto my servant Joseph.

<sup>10</sup> And I will give unto him power to be mighty in testimony.

<sup>11</sup> And I will give unto thee power to be mighty in expounding all scriptures, that thou mayest be a spokesman unto him, and he shall be a revelator unto thee, that thou mayest know the certainty of all things pertaining to the things of my kingdom on the earth.

<sup>12</sup> Therefore, continue your journey and let your hearts rejoice; for behold, and lo, I am with you even unto the end.

<sup>13</sup> And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season.

<sup>14</sup> Thy brethren, my servants Orson Hyde and John Gould, are in my hands; and inasmuch as they keep my commandments they shall be saved.

<sup>15</sup> Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the church.

<sup>16</sup> For I will raise up unto myself a pure people, that will serve me in righteousness;

<sup>17</sup> And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his commandments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen.
