---
title: "D&C 30"
book: "Doctrine and Covenants"
chapter: 30
volume: "doctrine-and-covenants"
slug: "sections/30"
verses_count: 11
---

<sup>1</sup> Behold, I say unto you, David, that you have feared man and have not relied on me for strength as you ought.

<sup>2</sup> But your mind has been on the things of the earth more than on the things of me, your Maker, and the ministry whereunto you have been called; and you have not given heed unto my Spirit, and to those who were set over you, but have been persuaded by those whom I have not commanded.

<sup>3</sup> Wherefore, you are left to inquire for yourself at my hand, and ponder upon the things which you have received.

<sup>4</sup> And your home shall be at your father's house, until I give unto you further commandments. And you shall attend to the ministry in the church, and before the world, and in the regions round about. Amen.

<sup>5</sup> Behold, I say unto you, Peter, that you shall take your journey with your brother Oliver; for the time has come that it is expedient in me that you shall open your mouth to declare my gospel; therefore, fear not, but give heed unto the words and advice of your brother, which he shall give you.

<sup>6</sup> And be you afflicted in all his afflictions, ever lifting up your heart unto me in prayer and faith, for his and your deliverance; for I have given unto him power to build up my church among the Lamanites;

<sup>7</sup> And none have I appointed to be his counselor over him in the church, concerning church matters, except it is his brother, Joseph Smith, Jun.

<sup>8</sup> Wherefore, give heed unto these things and be diligent in keeping my commandments, and you shall be blessed unto eternal life. Amen.

<sup>9</sup> Behold, I say unto you, my servant John, that thou shalt commence from this time forth to proclaim my gospel, as with the voice of a trump.

<sup>10</sup> And your labor shall be at your brother Philip Burroughs', and in that region round about, yea, wherever you can be heard, until I command you to go from hence.

<sup>11</sup> And your whole labor shall be in Zion, with all your soul, from henceforth; yea, you shall ever open your mouth in my cause, not fearing what man can do, for I am with you. Amen.
