---
title: "D&C 94"
book: "Doctrine and Covenants"
chapter: 94
volume: "doctrine-and-covenants"
slug: "sections/94"
verses_count: 17
---

<sup>1</sup> And again, verily I say unto you, my friends, a commandment I give unto you, that ye shall commence a work of laying out and preparing a beginning and foundation of the city of the stake of Zion, here in the land of Kirtland, beginning at my house.

<sup>2</sup> And behold, it must be done according to the pattern which I have given unto you.

<sup>3</sup> And let the first lot on the south be consecrated unto me for the building of a house for the presidency, for the work of the presidency, in obtaining revelations; and for the work of the ministry of the presidency, in all things pertaining to the church and kingdom.

<sup>4</sup> Verily I say unto you, that it shall be built fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and in the length thereof, in the inner court.

<sup>5</sup> And there shall be a lower court and a higher court, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.

<sup>6</sup> And it shall be dedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, according to the order of the priesthood, according to the pattern which shall be given unto you hereafter.

<sup>7</sup> And it shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord for the work of the presidency.

<sup>8</sup> And ye shall not suffer any unclean thing to come in unto it; and my glory shall be there, and my presence shall be there.

<sup>9</sup> But if there shall come into it any unclean thing, my glory shall not be there; and my presence shall not come into it.

<sup>10</sup> And again, verily I say unto you, the second lot on the south shall be dedicated unto me for the building of a house unto me, for the work of the printing of the translation of my scriptures, and all things whatsoever I shall command you.

<sup>11</sup> And it shall be fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the width thereof and the length thereof, in the inner court; and there shall be a lower and a higher court.

<sup>12</sup> And this house shall be wholly dedicated unto the Lord from the foundation thereof, for the work of the printing, in all things whatsoever I shall command you, to be holy, undefiled, according to the pattern in all things as it shall be given unto you.

<sup>13</sup> And on the third lot shall my servant Hyrum Smith receive his inheritance.

<sup>14</sup> And on the first and second lots on the north shall my servants Reynolds Cahoon and Jared Carter receive their inheritances—

<sup>15</sup> That they may do the work which I have appointed unto them, to be a committee to build mine houses, according to the commandment, which I, the Lord God, have given unto you.

<sup>16</sup> These two houses are not to be built until I give unto you a commandment concerning them.

<sup>17</sup> And now I give unto you no more at this time. Amen.
